---
name: IS 445 HW 6
tools: [Python, HTML, vega-lite, Altair]
image: assets/pngs/viz2.png
description: This is the plots for building inventory. 
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


# IS 445 HW 6

## Chart 1: ##

### Buildings Constructed Over Time by Status with County Filter ###

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/viz1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart><br />

## Write-up ##
The visualization shows the number of buildings constructed over time and segmented by their status, with the interactive filter for specific counties. The x-axis shows the year each building was constructed, and the y-axis shows the count of buildings. I use color encoding to show the difference between the building status: red for in use, blue for abandoned, and light blue for in progress. The color shows a clear understanding of the status of the constructions. Similar to homework 5, I added a dropdown filter to let users choose the county they wanted. The filtering option helps users focus on data that’s relevant to a specific area. This interactivity makes it easier for users to focus on trends within a chosen area. 


## Chart 2: ##
### Square Footage of Acquired Buildings by Year ###

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/viz2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart><br />

### Write-up ###
The second scatter plot visualization shows the relationship between the acquisition year of the building and its square footage, using the same color encoding to show the building status. I also used a filter to display only buildings acquired within a user-selected year range. I cleaned the data to make sure that there were no missing or irrelevant entries. The x-axis shows the year acquired, and the y-axis shows the square footage. I added a slider to the visualization based on the acquisition year, which allows users to look into specific time periods. Users can better identify trends in building acquisitions by size over different periods. 


<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/rosalind0812/rosalind0812.github.io/tree/main/python_notebooks/hw_6.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

